Journal: Reflection on what we did, what we learned, what questions I have, to do list

Journal for Monday, November 4th
	Today we went over the Unit 2 project and how it'll try and translate between Morse code and binary. I then detailed this problem in the README of this repository. We also learned a little about arduinos and downloaded the software to use arduinos. 

Journal from Sunday, November 10th for For Loops
	When trying to code the for loops using the language an Arduino uses, C++, the computational logic held true. Thus, making a system diagram for what we had to proved relatively easy. Finding the correct syntax and then coding the actual program was definitely the harder portion. Research had to be done to figure out the proper syntax and all of those related actions. 

Journal from Monday, November 11th 
	Today, we looked at our code for the traffic light problem. From there, we also looked at how to actually run this program on a real arduino rather than a simulated circuit. 

Journal from Wednesday, November 13th
	Today, we looked at how to make a light flash. This included the light blinkng at different intervals. We also tried to do this but with using multiple lights. On top of that, we tried to find a way to convert decimal numbers to binary. Some of the code and circuitry regarding the flashing lights can be found on the README of this repository.

Journal from Monday, November 18th
	Today, we looked at logic gates. We learned about gates such as "or," "and," "not," and "xor." These functions were confusing in the beginning but after recognizing the pattern in how they work, they definitely make sense. I still am not completely sure on how the gates and the equation for an output can be integrated into the code of a program, however. We also learned about different ways to represent a number such as binary and hexadecimal. We learned how to convert from decimal to these bases and vice versa.  

Journal from Tuesday, November 19th
	On this day, we practiced more with using logic gates by looking at diagrams at then creating logic equations. From there, we did the opposite and created diagrams for logic equations. Then, we simplified K-map tables into logic equations and finally, applied all of this to a real question related to an alarm system within a house. These activities were quite helpful in that they helped me to better understand logic equations and especially how to create the most simplified equations possible by factoring. In addition, creating a table of binary addition and multiplication helped me to better understand how to create equations for inputs and outputs. 

Journal from Wednesday, November 20th
	Today, we applied everything we've been learning the past two days towards creating a system which utilizes three buttons to show a number using seven segments of LEDs. While I was confused in the beginning, I eventually understood that we had to create a table with all of the possible inputs and then have each one of the seven seperate segments be a different output. Then, we could find one equation for each output and set that to a variable. In the beginning, I actually used "if then" statements though; however, I realized that I needed to change it to a variable to increase efficiency. While I finished all of the coding on this day, I still did not finish the circuitry because I am not completely sure how to hook up seven LEDs to three buttons in a "7-segment" pattern. Thus, I hope I can find the answer to this enaither online or during the next class. 
	To Do List:
	1. See how to hook up seven LEDs to one breadboard
	2. Work on README file
	
Journal from Friday, Novemebr 22nd
Today. we worked on creating the circuit which can have the seven segment number. I still didn't understand how to correctly hook everything up but I finally got the code to work. My question is how to attach seven separate LEDs and also how to use the built in seven segment display. We also got assigned which planet we would be working on: I am working on Earth so my responsibility is to translate from morse code to English and vice versa. We then worked on creating a system diagram to begin our work for this project. 

Journal from Monday, November 25th, 2019
We worked on creating the input methods to enter English into our future program. We did this by having two buttons and then trying to create a system in which the program cycles through letters and numbers of the English alphabet. Then, when a button is pressed, one of the letters or numbers is put down. It was difficult to find code in which the system cycles through all of the different characters but I eventually used a while loop. While I believe I have all of the pseudocode done, I still need to figure out the exact syntax and circuitry for this system as well.  

Journal from Wednesday
We worked on the system diagram and continued working on our English program with two buttons.

Journal from Monday, December 2nd, 2019
Questions from today: How to display msg in English? How to switch between input and sending? Switch between morse and binary? how to send binary?
we learned about computer architecture:
computer consists of cpu, memory, devices (keyboard, monitor, etc.). the cpu has control over memory and has t
how many symbols do we need to send/how many bits do we need to use (using 0 and 1)

we then created a circuit with the LCD display and also created a system diagram for the English input system. we did not have enough time to test it and actually see how well it worked, however. 

Journal from Wednesday, December 4th, 2019:
Today we looked at the English input program that we already had and then worked on displaying the letters on an LCD screen with two buttons. We made created a system diagram for the English input program (can be found on classroom and in README) and then created two LCD screens connected to an Arduino. We worked in our planetary teams. We couldn't get it to work though, so hopefully next class we can get it to work. I learned about what a potentiometer is today (a resistor which can have the resistance adjusted). Additionally, we learned about how an LCD screen needs to be configured for it to work; however, all of that information is stored in the Arduino. 

Journal from Tuesday, December 10th, 2019:
Today, we continued to work on the LCD screen and buttons to input English. We got it to work after configuring the program correctly on the computer -- the main issue was that the Arduino wasn't selected through the correct port. After this, we worked on psuedocode on how to actually translate the text entered by the user into morse code (Earth's job). While we gathered that we should use a for loop and a switch, we still weren't exactly sure how to take one letter out of the string. Next time, we need to work on actually coding this and also making an LCD with the buttons in TinkerCad so we can virtually test our program. 
What I learned: switch, configuring Arduino, morse code, morse code limitations 

Journal from Wednesday, December 11th, 2019:
Today we were assigned homework on researching one part of the Arduino (I picked analog comparator) and researching it, creating a slides presentation, and presenting it at the next class on Friday. From here, we have time to continue work on the project of translating our English into morse code. We debated between using one light based on time or two lights to communicate morse. We ended up making a pro and con table to detail this. After that, we, the Earth team, started coded the program. We used a for loop to cycle through each letter in the "text" string and then used a "switch" to create the code for each letter. We also called separate functions of "dot" and "dash" so that our code would be as minimal as possible. Next time, we need to test our code to see how it actually works.

Journal from Friday, December 13th, 2019:
Today was the last day before winter break. Our class was cancelled!

Journal from Monday, January 6th, 2020:
This was the first day back from break. We learned about C and how it has many similarities to Arduino but is slightly different. We created a numerical triangle pyramid and played away with the new language. We also learned about creating a protocol (ex. IP, VPN, etc) which will be useful for our morse/binary interplanetary communication system as detailed in the README of this repository.

Journal from Wednesday, January 8th, 2020:
Today we were assigned exercises to practice C and get better at using the language. All of these programs are housed within the C folder of this repository. This was good practice to hone our coding skills. I got stuck on the last question, number 10, because it was the only question to use strings; however, I ended up figuring it out in the end. 

Journal from Monday, January 13th:
We learned about the machine cycle and all of the various registers in it. While it was confusing at first, it made sense towards the end. I also realized that I need to work on memorizing the hexadecimal and binary number system. 

Wednesday, January 15th:
We had free time today to work on our Unit 2 project, including the code and repository. We made further progress on the system which would actually communicate the morse code using a light; however, when integrated with the rest of the code (including the input system), it failed to work. I hope to work more on this before next class in order to get it properly working.

Monday, January 20th:

Tuesday, January 21st
